# Nextflow syntax and commands

##1. Naming the script

Nextflow scripts are written with a .nf file extension, e.g., scriptname.nf.

## 2. Starting Line

The line nextflow.enable.dsl=2 is enabling DSL2, which is the Domain-Specific Language version 2 for Nextflow. This version introduces improvements and new features over DSL1, particularly for modularizing workflows.

## 3. Create Functions

Nextflow uses processes to define tasks. A process is a function where you write the commands you want to run.

process function_name {
    """
    commands
    """
}

The process block contains the commands that will be executed by Nextflow. These are typically shell commands, like you would write in a Bash script, wrapped in triple quotes """.

## 4. Executing Functions

You execute the functions (processes) by defining a workflow.

workflow {
    function_name()
}

The workflow block calls the processes you’ve defined, running them in the order they appear.

##5. Running Bash Scripts

To execute your Nextflow script, use the command:

nextflow run scriptname.nf

This will start running the processes defined in your Nextflow script.

## 6. Output

Output generated by a process is stored in the work directory.
Nextflow generates a directory for each process execution, with a random name starting with "ff" or similar, followed by a long string of random characters.
You can use the tab key in the terminal to auto-complete the directory name when navigating to it.
Example of navigating to a specific output directory:

cd work/ff/7e47ed3656f8dafc513190c08e83ef

This directory holds the temporary results produced by each process.

## 7. Publish Output to a Directory

You can define where the output of a process should be published.
If the output is to be used as input for other processes within the workflow, you define it like this:

output: path "outputname"
For the final output that you want to save permanently, you can use publishDir, which allows you to specify the location and behavior of the output:

publishDir "path", mode: 'copy', overwrite: true
This will copy the final output to the specified directory, with the option to overwrite existing files if necessary.
